PGD CLI in BA docs (#5520)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/biganimal/release/using_cluster/pgd_cli_ba.mdx

1. Log into the [BigAnimal clusters](https://portal.biganimal.com/clusters) view.
1. In the filter, set **Cluster Type** to **Distributed High Availability** to show only clusters that work with PGD CLI.
1. Select your cluster.
1. In the view of your cluster, select the **Connect** tab.
1. Copy the read/write URI from the connection info. This is your connection string.

### Using the PGD CLI with your database connection string

!!! Important
PGD does not prompt for interactive passwords. Accordingly, you should have a [`.pgpass` file](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgpass.html) properly configured to allow access to the cluster. Your BigAnimal cluster's connection information page has all the necessary information needed for the file. 

Without a properly configured `.pgpass`, you receive a database connection error when using a PGD CLI command, even when using the correct database connection string with the `--dsn` flag.
!!!

To use the PGD CLI with your database connection string, use the `--dsn` flag with your PGD CLI command:

```bash
pgd show-nodes --dsn "<your_connection_string>"
```

## PGD commands in BigAnimal

!!! Note

> There are two EDB Postgres Distributed CLI commands that don't apply to BigAnimal: `create-proxy` and `delete-proxy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three EDB Postgres Distributed CLI commands that don't apply to BigAnimal: `create-proxy`, `delete-proxy` and `alter-proxy-option`.
```

Replslots  Ok      All BDR replication slots are working correctly            
Version    Ok      All nodes are running same BDR versions               
```

### `pgd show-nodes`

`pgd show-nodes` returns all the nodes in the DHA cluster and their summaries, including name, node id, group, and current/target state:

```
$ pgd show-nodes --dsn "postgres://edb_admin@p-mbx2p83u9n-a.pg.biganimal.io:5432/bdrdb?sslmode=require"

Node             Node ID    Group          Type Current State Target State Status Seq ID 
----             -------    -----          ---- ------------- ------------ ------ ------ 
p-mbx2p83u9n-a-1 3537039754 dc1            data ACTIVE        ACTIVE       Up     1      
p-mbx2p83u9n-a-2 3155790619 p-mbx2p83u9n-a data ACTIVE        ACTIVE       Up     2      
p-mbx2p83u9n-a-3 2604177211 p-mbx2p83u9n-a data ACTIVE        ACTIVE       Up     3      
```

### `pgd show-groups`

`pgd show-groups` returns all groups in your DHA BigAnimal cluster. It also notes which node is the current write leader of each group:

```
$ pgd show-groups --dsn "postgres://edb_admin@p-mbx2p83u9n-a.pg.biganimal.io:5432/bdrdb?sslmode=require"

> 

Reviewer: ___OUTPUT___ in the examples after what you entered and what comes out.

Group          Group ID   Type   Parent Group   Location Raft  Routing Write Leader     
-----          --------   ----   ------------   -------- ----  ------- ------------     
world          3239291720 global                         true  true    p-mbx2p83u9n-a-1 
dc1            4269540889 data   p-mbx2p83u9n-a          false false                    
p-mbx2p83u9n-a 2800873689 data   world                   true  true    p-mbx2p83u9n-a-3 
```

> 

Author: Got it. Will add.

---
title: PGD CLI on BigAnimal
navTitle: PGD CLI on BigAnimal
deepToC: true
---

When running a distributed high-availability cluster (DHA) on BigAnimal, you can use the [PGD CLI](../../../pgd/latest/cli/) to manage cluster operations, such as switching over write leaders, performing cluster health checks, and viewing various details about nodes, groups, or other aspects of the cluster.

## Installing the PGD CLI 

To [install the PGD CLI](../../../pgd/latest/cli/installing_cli/), replace `<your-token>` with your EDB subscription token in the following command for Debian and Ubuntu machines:

```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/&lt;your-token&gt;/postgres_distributed/setup.deb.sh' | sudo -E bash
sudo apt-get install edb-pgd5-cli
```

or in this command for RHEL, Rocky, AlmaLinux, or Oracle Linux machines:

```bash
curl -1sLf 'https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/&lt;your-token&gt;/postgres_distributed/setup.rpm.sh' | sudo -E bash
sudo yum install edb-pgd5-cli
```

## Connecting to your BigAnimal cluster

### Discovering your database connection string

> To connect to your DHA BigAnimal cluster via the PGD CLI, you need to [discover the database connection string](../../../pgd/latest/cli/discover_connections/) from your BigAnimal console:

Reviewer 2: @jpe442 we don't use the DHA acronym anywhere. It's always PGD

Author: You're right we don't use the DHA acronym, but we do not call them PGD in BA docs as often: for instance: http://localhost:8000/biganimal/latest/overview/02_high_availability/distributed_highavailability/. This is because they are not called PGD clusters in the BA UI, they are called distributed high-availability.

1. Log into the [BigAnimal clusters](https://portal.biganimal.com/clusters) view.
1. In the filter, set **Cluster Type** to **Distributed High Availability** to show only clusters that work with PGD CLI.
1. Select your cluster.
1. In the view of your cluster, select the **Connect** tab.
1. Copy the read/write URI from the connection info. This is your connection string.

### Using the PGD CLI with your database connection string

!!! Important
PGD does not prompt for interactive passwords. Accordingly, you should have a [`.pgpass` file](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgpass.html) properly configured to allow access to the cluster. Your BigAnimal cluster's connection information page has all the necessary information needed for the file. 

Without a properly configured `.pgpass`, you receive a database connection error when using a PGD CLI command, even when using the correct database connection string with the `--dsn` flag.
!!!

To use the PGD CLI with your database connection string, use the `--dsn` flag with your PGD CLI command:

```bash
pgd show-nodes --dsn "<your_connection_string>"
```

## PGD commands in BigAnimal

!!! Note

> There are three EDB Postgres Distributed CLI commands that don't apply to BigAnimal: `create-proxy`, `delete-proxy` and `alter-proxy-option`.

Reviewer 2: @jpe442 could we add a sentence about why they don't apply? because they're already created, BA is a managed service etc just so people have some sense of why they aren't allowed

Author: I put an ask out in #eng-pgd. Will ask DJ as well.

Author: Okay, basically the guidance is that we should say they don't apply to BA because BA manages those three functions, as BA runs on Kubernetes and those activities are handled by the operator according to technical best practices.

----             -------    -----          ---- ------------- ------------ ------ ------ 
p-mbx2p83u9n-a-1 3537039754 dc1            data ACTIVE        ACTIVE       Up     1      
p-mbx2p83u9n-a-2 3155790619 p-mbx2p83u9n-a data ACTIVE        ACTIVE       Up     2      
p-mbx2p83u9n-a-3 2604177211 p-mbx2p83u9n-a data ACTIVE        ACTIVE       Up     3      
```

### `pgd show-groups`

`pgd show-groups` returns all groups in your DHA BigAnimal cluster. It also notes which node is the current write leader of each group:

```
$ pgd show-groups --dsn "postgres://edb_admin@p-mbx2p83u9n-a.pg.biganimal.io:5432/bdrdb?sslmode=require"
__OUTPUT__
Group          Group ID   Type   Parent Group   Location Raft  Routing Write Leader     
-----          --------   ----   ------------   -------- ----  ------- ------------     
world          3239291720 global                         true  true    p-mbx2p83u9n-a-1 
dc1            4269540889 data   p-mbx2p83u9n-a          false false                    
p-mbx2p83u9n-a 2800873689 data   world                   true  true    p-mbx2p83u9n-a-3 
```

### `pgd switchover`

> `pgd switchover` changes the write leader of the group to another node without a failover.

Reviewer 2: @jpe442 this wording feels a little odd to me - maybe instead something like allows you to manually change the write leader of the group, and can be used to simulate failover https://www.enterprisedb.com/docs/pgd/latest/quickstart/further_explore_failover/?

Author: Okay, I will use your wording.

---
title: PGD CLI on BigAnimal
navTitle: PGD CLI on BigAnimal
deepToC: true
---

When running a distributed high-availability cluster on BigAnimal, you can use the [PGD CLI](../../../pgd/latest/cli/) to manage cluster operations, such as switching over write leaders, performing cluster health checks, and viewing various details about nodes, groups, or other aspects of the cluster.

> Using the PGD CLI with BigAnimal requires installing it on a client machine, so [install the CLI](../../../pgd/latest/cli/installing_cli/) if you haven't already.

Reviewer: Redundant - just tell them what to do.

Author: I made an adjustment. Let me know what you think.

> Using the PGD CLI with BigAnimal requires installing it on a client machine, so [install the CLI](../../../pgd/latest/cli/installing_cli/) if you haven't already.

Reviewer: Also why aren't you giving them install instructions? At least at a cursory level.

## Connecting to your BigAnimal cluster

### Discovering your database connection string

To connect to your distributed high-availability BigAnimal cluster via the PGD CLI, you need to [discover the database connection string](../../../pgd/latest/cli/discover_connections/) from your BigAnimal console:

1. Log into the [BigAnimal clusters](https://portal.biganimal.com/clusters) view.
1. In the filter, set **Cluster Type** to **Distributed High Availability** to show only clusters that work with PGD CLI.
1. Select your cluster.
1. In the view of your cluster, select the **Connect** tab.
1. Copy the read/write URI from the connection info. This is your connection string.

### Using the PGD CLI with your database connection string

To use the PGD CLI with your database connection string, use the `--dsn` flag with your PGD CLI command:

```bash
pgd show-nodes --dsn "<your_connection_string>"
```

> See the [PGD CLI command reference](../../../pgd/latest/cli/command_ref/) for the full range of PGD CLI commands and their descriptions. 

Reviewer: At least add some examples because the pgd commands can just be confusing. Also there's commands you should not use - mention them.

I'd split this into two pages 
- a why you need pgd cli and how to install 
- pgd commands for dha clusters

Author: The BA docs are already a sprawling monstrosity, so I am worried two different pages will be confusing there. I will try adding some PGD command examples on this page and see how that looks. The way I was thinking about it is that there would be this one page in the BA docs that gives the essential information about PGD CLI, but then it would reference back to the PGD docs for anything too much more in-depth. My thought was that this would satisfy the original ask from Natalia (which seemed to be about discoverability of PGD CLI in BA docs) without rewriting the PGD CLI docs in the BA docs.

Author: Also, yes I will make mention of the fact that specific PGD commands don't work with BA clusters.

!!! Important

> Your database connection string does not contain the password for your BigAnimal cluster. So, you should have a [`.pgpass` file](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgpass.html) properly configured to allow access to the cluster. Your BigAnimal cluster's connection information page has all the necessary information needed for the file. 

Reviewer: Pgd does not prompt for interactive passwords - this should be up front when explaining this

Author: I think I am following this, I made it more clear that PGD doesn't prompt for interactive passwords there.
